I have had major issues with behavior in my first year of teaching, and I suspect that is a symptom of problems in planning and assessment in addition to classroom management, as mentioned in the reading; "Are instructional materials so difficult or unstructured that students are getting frustrated?" (Ormrod et. al., 2019). I have noticed that students misbehave far more often if they think that an activity isn't being graded, and I think formative assessment is the assessment strategy that I can improve the most. With that in mind, I have designed a rubric for formative assessment designed to be used daily; I would be very grateful for your feedback on categories, point distribution, and divisions.
Formative rubric thoughts?

Another approach for formative assessment may be to make my bell ringers 'Socratic' questions; ones that lead my students into thinking about the learning target for the day, introduce analogies we will use to relate to the learning target, and give them a formal time to respond to and make their own connections with the learning target.

In general, I need some suggestions on how to begin using formative assessment in my classroom. Do you have some favorite examples of specific methods of formative assessment?

In the reading, the virtues of collaboration between teachers. "In fact, when teachers work together, they have higher collective self-efficacy—a belief that by working as a team, they can definitely have an impact on students’ learning and achievement—and this collective self-confidence is correlated with students’ academic performance" (Ormrod et. al., 2019). As a connections teacher, I don't have a shared planning with any academic teachers. I think it's great that all the teachers on the academic teams can coordinate, but it is tough to know that we are left out of these discussions. Do you have any recommendations on how that collaboration can happen?

"Ultimately we must communicate (1) our interest in the student’s long-term school achievement, (2) our concern that the misbehavior is interfering with that achievement, and (3) our commitment to working cooperatively with the student to alleviate the problem." I sent a message to a parent that communicated exactly that yesterday! I hadn't even finished the reading yet. I am happy that I was able to focus on the right things when addressing misbehavior!

"First, if a microaggression occurs in your classroom, try to focus on the content of the microaggression, rather than on the perpetrator." Handling these situations is tricky, especially if the student truly doesn't understand why what they said may be problematic or interpreted as hurtful by others. What do you suggest in these situations to make sure that the reasoning we provide is meaningful to the student?

